you
this lecture is about how to evaluate
the text retrieval system when we have
multiple levels of catchments in this
lecture we will continue the discussion
of evaluation we're going to look at how
to evaluate a tax retrieval system when
we have multiple level of judgments so
so far we have talked about the binary
judgments that means a document is
judged as being relevant or not relevant
but earlier we also talked about
relevance as a matter of degree so we
often can't distinguish it very highly
reading the document those are very
useful tokens from you know moderated
rather than the documents they are okay
they are useful apps and further from
non relevant documents those are not
useful so imagine you can have ratings
for these pages then you would have
multiple levels of readings for example
here is example 3 levels 3 for relevant
sorry 3 for very relevant to 4 margin or
irrelevant and one for non relevant now
how do we evaluate so changing system
using these judgments obvious that the
map doesn't work average of precision
doesn't work precision and recall didn't
work because they rely on binary
judgments so let's look at the some top
regular results when using these
judgments by imagining the user would be
mostly care about the top 10 withouts
here right and we marked the rating
levels or relevance levels for these
documents as shown here you know 3 2 1 1
3 etc and we call this game and the
reason why we call it the game is
because the measure that that we are
introducing is called a nd CG normalized
a discounted accumulative game so this
game basically can measure how much a
gang of randomly information a user can
obtain by looking at each document
right so looking at the first document
that the user can gain three points
looking at a non random knocking the
user would only gain one point by
looking at the motor in the relevant no
margin relevant document the user would
get two points etcetera so this gaining
creatively matches the utility of a
document from a user's perspective of
course if we assume the user stops at
the ten documents and we're looking at
the cutoff at ten we can look at the
total gain of the user and what's that
well that's simply the sum of these and
we call it a few minute of game so if
the user stops at to the position one
that's just three if the user looks at
another document that's a three plus two
if the user looks at more documents then
the cumulative gain is more of course
this is at the cost of spending more
time to examine the list so cumulative
gain gives us some idea about how much
total gain the user would have if the
user examines all these documents now in
a TCG we also have another letter here T
discounted cumulative game so why do we
want to do discounted well if you look
at this cumulative gain there is one
deficiency which is it did not consider
the ranked position of these these
documents so for example looking at this
sum here and we only know there is one
highly relevant document one margin
around document to number of documents
we don't really care where they are
ranked ideally we want these two to be
ranked from the top and which is the
case here but how can we capture that
intuition well we have to say well this
is three here is not as good as this
three on the top and that means the
contribution of the game from different
positions has to be weighted by their
position and this is the idea of
discounting basically so we're going to
say well the first one doesn't need to
be discounted because the user can be
assumed that you always see this
document but the second a while this one
will be discounted a little bit because
there's a small possibility that the
user wouldn't notice it so we divide
this game by the weight based on the
position so log of two two is the rank
position of this document and when we go
to the third position we discount the
even more because the normalize is log
of three and so on so forth so when we
take a such a son then a lowly Ranga
document would not contribute contribute
that much as a highly ranked document so
that means if you for example switch the
position of this and let's say this
position and this one and then you would
get more discount if you put for example
very rare document here as opposed to
two here imagine if you put a 3 here
then it would have to be discounted so
it's not as good as if you put a 3 here
so this is the idea of discounting ok so
now at this point that we have got a
discounted accumulated game for
measuring the utility of this ranked
list with multiple levels of judgments
so are we happy with this well we can
use this rank systems now we still need
to do a little more in order to make
this measure comparable across different
topics and this is the last step and by
the way here we just show the tzg at the
10th right so this is the total sum of
decision over all these 10 documents so
the last step is called n normalization
and if we do that then we will get the
normalized decision so how do we do that
well the idea is we're going to
normalize TCG by the I do TCG at the
same cutoff what is the ID of decision
well this is the TCG of ID arrangement
so imagine if we have nine documents in
the whole collection
three here and that means include oh we
have nine documents rated three then our
idea ranked the listener would have put
all these nine documents on the very top
so all these would have to be three and
then this will be followed by a two here
because that's the best we could do
after we have run out of threes but all
these positions would be threes right so
this would be an ideal ranked list and
then we can compute the TCG for this
ideal ranked list so this would be given
by this formula that you see here and so
this idea TCG would then be used as the
normalizer TCG so here and this idea TCG
will be used as normalizing so you can
imagine now normalization essentially is
to compare the actual DCG with the best
TCG you can possible again for this
topic now why do we want to do this well
by doing this would map the DCT values
into a range of 0 through 1 so the best
value or the highest value for every
query would be one that's when your rank
list is in fact the idealist
otherwise in general you know you you
would be lower than one now what if we
don't do that well you can see this
transformation or this normalization
doesn't really affect the relative
comparison of systems for just one topic
because this idea of TCG is the same for
all the systems so the ranking of
systems based on only dzg would be
exactly the same as if you rank them
based on the normalized a TCG the
difference however is when we have
multiple topics because if we don't do
normalization different topics will have
different scales of TCG for a topical
like this one we have nine highly
relevant documents the TCG can get
really high promoting in another case
there are only two very rare in the
docket
in total in the whole collection then
the high statistic that any system could
achieve for such a topic will not be
very high so again we face the problem
of different scales of DCT values and
when we take an average we don't want
the average to be dominated by those
high values those are again easy queries
so by doing the normalization we have
avoided the problem avoided the problem
making all the queries contribute the
encoder to the average so this is the
idea of in DCT it's useful for measuring
a ranked list based on multiple level
relevance judgments so more in a more
general way this is basically a measure
that can be applied to any rank that has
with multiple level of judgments and the
scale of the judgments can be multiple
can be more than binary not only more
than binary there can be multiple levels
like 1 0 5 or even more depending on
your application and the main idea of
this measure I just do summer eyes is to
measure the total utility of the top K
documents so you always choose a cutoff
and then you measure the total utility
and it would discount the contribution
from a lowly ranked document and finally
they would do normalization to ensure
comparability across queries
[Music]